Hi, everyone. My name is Tina Sharkey.
Corporate Vice President of Microsoft
Foundry. Along with me is Jeff Holland,
Partner Director on our Foundry Agent
platform.
We're super excited to be with you
today.
For the next 45 minutes, we're going to
walk you through building an agent
locally,
hosted in a sandbox, having run
production workload, and and operated to
see it self-improve. So, get excited.
Before we get started, I would love to
ground us on where we are today.
We have entered a new era of AI agents.
Three things are true.
One, building is no longer the hard
part.
With coding agents such as GitHub
Copilot, GitHub Copilot CLI, and Cloud
Code,
any developer is able to stand up a
powerful agent within minutes.
The question has shifted from can I
build it to can I run it reliably at
enterprise scale?
Two, agent capabilities have exploded.
We're no longer building agents that are
static routers shuffling requests
between a fixed set of tools.
Today's agents can spawn off new agents.
They have full access to their compute
environments. They can create new
skills. They can generate new memory.
They can get things done that they were
never programmed to do to start with.
They are general-purpose systems.
And the third shift, which may be the
biggest shift of all, agents are
teammates, not tools.
We're no longer building chatbots. We're
building agents that take on significant
significant business outcome. And they
do whatever is needed to get that
outcome done outcome done by chatting
not only with people, but also with
other agents.
Now, let's put that in the context of
your entire business across every single
function.
Compliance, finance, supply chain,
support.
Businesses that win don't just build one
super powerful agent.
They have AI at the core of every single
function.
They have a coordinated system of agents
that are all carrying out business
business critical tasks.
They have all of these agents that are
long-running, and they're having they're
uh carrying out long high-value actions.
So, your team of agents become a team of
operators, continuously learning,
continuously improving.
So, that demands not just a build
platform.
It demands an entire operating system
for your enterprise AI transformation.
And that is what Foundry gives you.
And that's where our systems advantage
comes in.
Microsoft offers the most complete
system for any enterprise.
Foundry, Azure, GitHub, Microsoft 365,
Microsoft Security, all working as a
holistic system, not silo tools.
What we inside we have is that AI
systems are never done.
They run on production learning loops.
So, you may build your agent in GitHub
with GitHub CLI.
You define the eval to tell us what good
looks like.
You then deploy it right into Foundry,
so it runs on production workloads.
Every single action, every single cost
signal is then fed into the evaluation
and optimization service, which
continuously learns, continuously
improves. The system compounds the more
it runs.
So, it's no longer about fine-tuning a
specific model. It is about improving
this entire system.
Through tuning your models, tuning your
harness, your contacts, your memory, all
with developer in control for every
single change.
So, your your enterprise can continually
evolving its production agents rather
than having to rebuild from scratch
every single time.
This is how you transform your
enterprise
with agents.
Now, let's let's talk about our demo
scenario.
Microsoft runs the world's largest cloud
infrastructure.
Sometimes bad things happen, such as a
fiber cable gets cut near one of our
data centers.
When that happens today, we need an
agentic system that is able to respond,
dispatch, resolve really fast.
Today, we have our Azure networking
operations team who has built such an
agentic system that are not only
coordinating with humans, but also other
agentic systems to resolve incidents
like this.
We're going to build one such agent
today, autonomous fiber outage response
agent. I know it's a handful, but
So, the sensor may
the sensor detects the fiber outage.
And then it sends a signal to trigger
the agent.
The agent wakes up, and then it looks up
all the informa- information in Foundry
Toolbox.
It looks up the work site reliability
information as well as the location
information in fabric IQ.
It looks up the supplier conversations
information in work IQ.
It looks up all the specific work orders
as well as supplier agreement
information in relevant documents
through our document intelligence and
content understanding service.
It then dispatches a field rep to go
respond to the incident.
It files a ticket to be tracked in D365.
And then it publishes the latest status
right into Teams, so everyone is aware
of what's going on.
So we're going to show you the demo
through three developer phases: build,
deploy, and operate. All in a continuous
learning and continuous improvement
loop.
So that is a what and the why. Let us
now show you the how. Jeff, let's show
what a developer can do.
>> Great. Awesome. Thanks so much, Tina.
And as she mentioned, we actually want
to spend the majority of today showing
you this in action. As much as everybody
loves looking at slides created by our
amazing marketing team, we're going to
spend the majority of the session
actually building this live. So let's go
ahead and talk about some of the
problems that we're going to surface on
here on the next slide. In this build
phase, the part of the phase that has to
do with actually creating these agents.
Cuz as a developer, I have a bunch of
pieces in the next slide. Oh, we're
showing my screen. That's fine. I'll
talk to this screen for a second. I'll
just tell you the challenges. Don't
worry. Visualize the slide in your mind.
team made a great one. Uh, there's a few
challenges on the build phase. It's
like, how do I choose the right
framework? How do I choose the right
model? How do I make sure that my agent
has access to the right context? Think
of all the knowledge and information in
your organization that is helping your
agent be powered. How do you get all of
that integrated, secured with the right
identity, and ready to run even in
natural interfaces? Sometimes that might
be through chat experiences, other times
that might be through voice. Now, part
of what I want you to pay attention to
as we go through building this today
is well, many of these pieces exist in
the ecosystem, what we really want to
provide for you here in Foundry is a
single platform that brings it all
together. So, I'm not going to have to
jump between a whole bunch of different
tools and platforms to do what we've
described and making sure that we are
repairing our fiber optics lines if
something was ever to happen at one of
our uh regional centers. So, let's get
started. You can see here, I just have a
blank canvas. You can use any tool that
you want when working with Foundry.
Whether you like Cloud Code, GitHub
Copilot CLI, Cursor, Visual Studio, my
personal favorite combo is Visual Studio
Code with GitHub Copilot. Now, one of
the reasons that I like it is because we
have this Foundry Tool Kit extension.
This is now generally available. You can
see this actually gives me a bunch of
pieces that I need for this entire flow.
It's not just about creating agents. You
can see I have information here about
tracing and evaluations, making sure I
have the right models. All of this is
right here integrated for me. Now, if I
want to go ahead and create a new agent,
I have a few different options. I could
use one of our samples if I'm just
trying to get a feel for what's possible
or my personal preference is to generate
with Copilot. Now, we can help give you
an idea right here, but let's go ahead
and build the scenario that's closer to
what we want, which is hey, help me
create an agent that can act with our
field operations team. When somebody
goes on site to try to repair one of
these fiber optic lines, I want to make
sure that they have the right
information, whether it's from Work IQ
or Fabric IQ or Foundry IQ to actually
go do this. Now, let's go ahead and not
install a new model.
No. Uh but, this will go ahead and work
behind the scenes. One of the things
that I love about this extension, which
we're just going to let this play
nicely. Sure, just download it. If it's
going to make you happy, let's go ahead
and download this. Okay. So, one of the
things that I love about this extension,
this is how you know, by the way, this
is as live as it gets, is that this
actually integrates with it best
practices automatically from Foundry.
So, this includes, if I get rid of all
of these pop-ups, oh my goodness, this
AI agent expert, this has baked in a
bunch of skills out of the box based on
Foundry best practices. So, you can
install these skills standalone into
your coding agent, but this extension
will actually integrate them
automatically with my workload, so that
as it's generating the agent, it's able
to do so with the right best practices.
Okay. Let's go back here. Get this
desktop out of the way. Let's jump
ahead. Hey Copilot, you generated this
amazing agent. It pulled it out of the
oven a little bit. That's fine. All
right, a few things here I want to call
out. Like I said, Foundry, you can use
any framework that you want. I'm
personally here using Microsoft's agent
framework inside of Python. Now, agent
framework is phenomenal at doing things
like multi-step or multi-agent
workflows. One of the new capabilities
that we're actually leveraging in this
is the new harness inside of agent
framework. This gives a secure
environment for your agent to be able to
do things like execute shell commands,
read, write, and execute code all with a
harness that's operating and managing
with it. I can even plug in the GitHub
Copilot SDK as an additional harness as
I want. Now, this makes these agents
much more capable. Agents today are no
longer just about executing the
predefined tools that you've configured.
It can actually dynamically do
investigations, code writing, and code
authoring along the way. You're going to
see that as we go throughout the rest of
this demo. Now, one critical piece of
any agent is having access to the right
tools. So, I'm going to show you here
right inside of Visual Studio Code how I
can go ahead and start to add and
integrate with various tools. Now, if
there's one feature that I want you to
remember when it comes to tools, it is
Foundry Toolbox. Now, I can actually
manage this right here in Visual Studio
Code. This gives me a bunch of stuff
automatically. First, I can configure
for this agent or a collection of agents
a set of tools that I want to configure
for my task to be done. Now, what
Toolbox is going to do is it gives me a
single spot to manage them all. It's
handling authentication between things
like Foundry IQ where I have different
documents that I've indexed around like
our supplier contracts or our supplier
agreements. It integrates with things
like Web IQ and web search. You can see
here I've integrated Fabric IQ. I have a
bunch of site reliability data. Hey, how
are my sites in terms of uptime and
reliability? That's all surfaced through
Fabric, which I'm using Fabric IQ to
integrate with. And I also want to make
sure I have a history and access to
integrate with things like tools from
Teams and Outlook. So, I'm able to add
work IQ here. Toolbox gives me this one
spot. It's going to manage the
authentication.
I can set guardrails as well. So, if I
want to make sure that I'm specifying
and making sure that personally
identifiable information doesn't leak
from any of these tools, I can configure
that right away. I love this specific
feature of Toolbox, which is called tool
search. If you think about all of the
context required for my agent to reason
around all of these tools, not all of
them might be relevant. So, if I turn on
tool search, whenever I talk to Toolbox
through the single MCP compatible
endpoint, it will only return back the
tools that are relevant for that
specific task. Now, this allows me to
really optimize my context utilization
and my context window so I can keep my
agent focused on its most immediate
needs. Now, one more thing I'll just
slip in here very quickly. I could add
additional tools. We have thousands of
them. One of the cool ones here is
actually content understanding. There's
a session later tomorrow on content
understanding I'd recommend you check
out. But what content understanding lets
me do is like I have a document here.
This is actually a PDF document. You can
see it's a PDF but it has tabular data.
It's not very agent readable, not
without additional analysis. What
content understanding will do is it will
use a specialized model to turn a PDF of
a document, a contract, a specification,
you name it. And it will actually
convert it into an agent and AI ready
format. So I can pull out the tables,
the markdown, the figures, or even get
the raw JSON.
So that's what I've connected my agent
to do. So now I have this fiber
operations agent. I've got everything
that I need here. I've connected the
right tools. The other thing that I love
about working right here inside of
Visual Studio Code is I can do this
magical gesture. When we think about,
you know, Satya's keynote today and we
were showing how cool it is that now you
can have UI and code working together.
Well, in foundry I can F5 debug my
agent. So it's actually spinning up my
agent locally. It's going to connect to
toolbox. In fact, I can show you how
simple the line is to integrate with
toolbox. It's a single MCP compatible
endpoint that I can integrate with. And
this is now spun up for me on my local
host, my agent that I can start to
interact with. So let's go ahead and ask
this a question.
I say, "Hey, you know, I'm on site. I'm
trying to figure out why there's some
downtime. Can you help me understand why
this or what is the right connection
type that I should use?" Now, you'll
notice ahead of time I actually set a
breakpoint. My breakpoint was hit. If I
wanted to inspect a little bit more of
the request or the response, I have all
of the tools and debugging that I would
need to make sure the agent is behaving
how I want to. And right here, all
inside of Visual Studio Code, this has
been my home the entire time, I can see
the different events that are streaming
in and out of the agent and how it's
working to answer this question. So this
gives me me building flow, pulling in
the right tools from the right context,
whether it's web or foundry or fabric or
the Microsoft graph with work IQ,
connecting them with a framework that
has a harness to actually go in,
understand things like the specification
that it needs to look up. There's one
more thing I want to show here, which is
that while this is useful, if I was, you
know, deploying this as a chat
application, that maybe I want one of
these contractors to use when they're
repairing the site, they're also on the
job, right? When I'm asking a question
about the Quincy North Site connection
type, I'm probably wearing something
like work gloves, my hands are probably
occupied. Using a chat interface with
gloves, leather gloves, is not a good
experience, okay? So, I want to now
voice-enable this agent. And in Foundry,
we want to make that very easy as well.
I can go ahead and choose now to deploy
this agent into Foundry.
So, this will take all of the code that
I've run here and deploy it into my
Foundry account. And what I can do here
now is I'm going to switch to a version
I deployed ahead.
This is my favorite part of this demo.
How easy is it to make your agent
voice-enabled? Watch this. Here's the
magic. Voice mode, done, okay? We will
automatically wrap industry-leading
voice models. I can configure them over
here if I want to specialize them,
choose the right voice model, but this
is now taken what was built as a
Microsoft Agent Framework agent, and I
put this voice interface on it. So, now
this is the real moment of truth. I'm
going to go ahead and unmute my
speakers, and we're going to try to talk
to our agent friend here through voice.
Hey, can you pull up the fiber
termination spec for the Quincy North
Site and tell me which connector I
should use on the B side panel?
Let's hope that the volume
>> Just a sec.
>> Okay, great. So, you can hear it
starting to answer back. It's even has
is the responses are streaming back in
real time. This is open to web socket
with that voice connection. So, it's now
able to
>> Welcome. Pulling that up now.
>> Thank you for pulling that up now. So,
it's reaching into those tools, right?
It's iterating through toolbox and
giving me little updates.
>> Getting the spec now.
>> This might not happen in in instantly,
right? With agents like cloud code or
copilot SDK.
>> the spec now. Here are the fiber
termination specifications for the
Quincy North Site's B-side panel.
Connector family, LC UPC duplex required
on B-side panel. Five
>> Great. That's pretty cool, right? Not
not bad that I was able to turn this
agent into a voice optimized agent in no
time at all. All right. So, I'm going to
bring Tina back on to take us into the
next chapter of how we're going to take
this agent that I just developed quickly
in Visual Studio Code and deploy it at
scale with Foundry.
>> Thank you, Jeff. That was fantastic.
Let's take a look at the features that
Jeff just showed us.
Okay. First is Microsoft Agent Framework
now in version 1.0 production ready. As
Jeff mentioned, Microsoft Agent
Framework now has a built-in harness
that's well integrated with skills,
memory, middleware.
It also has plugins integrations with
harnesses such as GitHub Copilot SDK and
Cloud Agent SDK.
Foundry Toolkit for VS Code is now
generally available.
Foundry Toolkit provides a purpose-built
developer experience for building
Foundry agents without you having to
ever leave the editor.
Toolboxes in Foundry is generally
available soon.
Toolboxes provide one single managed
endpoint for all the tools that are
making your agents powerful, all with
the right governance and policy in
place.
Skills are now a first-class integration
with toolboxes as well.
Voice live integration with foundry
agent service is generally available
today for prompt agents and in public
preview for hosted agents to support our
sweet speech and voice
use scenarios.
I'm super excited to announce that
hosted agents in foundry agent service
is generally available soon.
Per session sandbox isolation
sub second cold start
zero idle time cost framework agnostic
that's foundry hosted agents.
Now even supports long running
autonomous agents such as open cloud and
Hermes agents.
All with durable state execution and
file system access.
Super exciting and now that we have a
local agent we scaffolded on a laptop,
how do we now get it into production,
Jeff?
>> All right, let's check it out. So if we
want to think of the next set of
challenges that we have that Tina
addressed, if I think of the agents
today that are really transforming even
how I work, these are not just reactive
based agents that I go to with a
question in a chat window and they come
back to me with an answer. These are
agents that I need to be long running
that are maintaining and building
context over time, accomplishing tasks
that might take days or even weeks. Now
I need to be able to do that in a secure
way. If we think about these types of
agents that I mentioned that have this
agent harness these might be reading and
writing code. I want to make sure that
I'm isolating these instances from each
other. Now I want to make sure that I'm
getting these also in front of users
through the interfaces that they care
about. I don't want to make everybody
add 10 new bookmarks to their browser to
remember the 10 cool agents that the
team is building. And each one of these
agents starts to become a lot more like
a teammate. Somebody who is helping
alongside, being proactive, giving me
suggestions as I go. So we want to bring
those same capabilities into this agent
that we started here. So I'm going to
show now on my laptop, uh a different
flavor of our agent friend. And this is
my agent called Fiby. Now, Fiby is a
claw-like agent. Fiby is monitoring,
uh uh our telemetry and our uptime for
our networking over time. And I'm going
to show you some of the capabilities in
Foundry that allow me to build these
claw-like agents right here. And we'll
talk about more. There's a whole session
that goes into this tomorrow morning.
So, you can go in. One of the coolest
pieces here is this new feature in
Foundry called routines. This is really
what makes my agents become proactive
instead of reactive. I can set up
different events that can actually
proactively wake my agent on different
tasks. So, you can see here I configured
a simple heartbeat. We'll go ahead and
open this up. So, I've told this thing,
"Hey, every hour I want you to wake up
and I need you to do a few things. I
want you to check the investigation log.
I want you to see if there's any
anomalies. If there's any anomalies, I
need you to follow the different skills
that you have to make sure that you're
alerting the right person, that you're
issuing the right subcontractor." The
Azure networking team actually does this
in real life. When an incident happens
that affects some of our networking, an
agent can automatically interact, wait
for human approval as necessary, and
start to get somebody on site to go
repair the site. So, this heartbeat,
this routine is part of what enables
this thing to be proactive cuz it's
going to check for these anomalies on
its own. So, you can see that over the
last bit, this has actually been firing
off a number of these different
routines. Now, one piece that's critical
here for these long-running agents is
around security. So, of course, if
you're thinking about claw-like agents,
you probably have in your mind like a
dedicated Windows machine or maybe a
dedicated Mac Mini. The reason that
folks do that is you want to make sure
as this agent works in its workspace,
that it's doing so in a secure way.
Imagine that I have subcontractor A and
subcontractor B, and they're both
interacting with Fiby in different ways.
Well, what if Fiby is reading and
writing files that has subcontractor A
specific or sensitive data in it, And
it's actually saving those files
locally.
Well, what if that same process, that
same agent, subcontractor B's agent,
gets a little bit creative and it goes
and pulls some of those files, right?
You can start to leak context, you can
start to leak code execution, it becomes
a nightmare. We want to make that easy
for everyone to solve. So, this new
hosted agent capability that Tina
mentioned becomes generally available
soon. The way that this works is every
single conversation, every single
routine, if I want, can kick off its own
dedicated session. So, you can see here
I have a number of sessions that have
kicked off. Each one of these is its own
isolated workspace. So, everything the
agent does happens separate from every
other conversation, but I still have
durable persistent state. So, for
instance, I can open this one that's
been idle since 11:00 a.m. this morning,
it looks like. I can see the logs of
this routine.
And I can actually inspect what was the
state of the file system when this went
idle. So, as this loads up, you can see
this actually saved a number of files to
its file system. You can see it had some
anomaly analysis, some vendor contacts,
some investigation. This is all
breadcrumbs that the agent is able to
write, just like a claw-like agent on my
machine, but it's now doing so securely
in the cloud. Now, I mentioned this is
idle, which is awesome because this is
waiting for an approval or maybe it
didn't find any event right now. I'm not
paying any money when this is idle. But
what happens when it needs to wake up
again? Well, when it wakes up, we will
resume the session, we will take all of
the state of that session, all of those
investigation files, we'll give it back
to the agent to continue its work. In
fact, I've extended these out-of-the-box
sessions with the durable task
scheduler. This allows me to monitor the
state even when all of my sessions are
idle. So, let me give you an example.
Let's say 5E wakes up, it finds
something and it needs to wait for human
approval. This has been sitting here for
I think two or three hours at this point
waiting for me to click approve. All of
my sessions are idle. But right now
durable task is saying, "Hey, you have
this instance that is sitting here
waiting for approval." Now this is all
serverlessly running. So again, my
session's not running, but durable task
has some additional state that I
integrated using the Microsoft agent
framework extension for durable task.
Now watch what happens. I'm going to go
ahead and click approve. When I click
approve, a few things are going to
happen all at once. I'll go ahead and
refresh this view in durable task. You
can see I had this long wait period
where it was waiting. Well, now durable
task said, "Oh, I got my approval. Go
resume the session." So now it comes
over here and let's do another refresh.
Let's refresh over here on the foundry
session view and we will see, "Hey,
[screaming]
this woke back up that session. My
session resumed. It had all of the
investigation files from before and it
went ahead and continued the work." So I
have this long-running secure way to
manage agents at scale where I can do
these things like human intervention
without worrying about rehydrating and
restarting the state every single time.
Now the last piece here that I want to
show, and you might have seen this a bit
in the keynote this morning, any of
these agents that I build, I can make
easily available to my entire team. Not
just setting up routines or through
custom apps like that 5B portal that you
saw, I can publish these easily to Teams
and Microsoft 365 Copilot. So if I go
ahead and choose this option, this will
walk me through all the steps that I
need to deploy it. Now you can see this
is actually already deployed. So I'll go
ahead and switch over here. This is
actually working as an autonomous agent
right now in Teams. It has its own
identity. It even has its own email
address. You can see 5B@notareal.co.
I'm pretty sure it's a real company
though. Don't worry about it. Uh and I
can come in here and go ahead and ask 5B
a question and I'm say like, "Hey 5B,
what are some of the active incidents
that you're working on right now?" That
same agent that I was showing you before
running inside of foundry, it's now
either resumed my session or started a
new one, and you can see 5B is now doing
the work required to come back and give
me an update on my status. So, I have
this possibility to build these
claw-like agents, integrate them into
services like Teams with all of the
critical building blocks that I need all
within Foundry. So, with that, Tina,
back to you for our next chapter.
>> Thank you, Jeff. Now, let's take a look
at the features Jeff just showed.
Number one, routines. Now, in Foundry
agent in service, in public preview.
Routines is what makes your agent from
reactive to proactive and makes it
long-running.
You as a developer decides what need to
happen when.
Foundry then queues, executes, and
tracks every single run.
This is how you
turn your reactive one-off task into a
proactive continuous agent.
Publish to Microsoft 365 Teams and
Copilot is generally available soon.
Now, you can publish all your Foundry
agents right into Teams and Copilot,
where all your teams are already doing
work.
Identity, policy, permissions, all flow
through
automatically.
In addition, developers now can publish
Foundry agents as autopilot agents right
into Teams. This is now in public
preview.
So, these autopilot agents can take up
Azure IDs, email addresses, and even
Teams presence.
So, they can start initiate they can
initiate a conversation or follow up on
action items, all governed end-to-end in
Agent 365.
So, now we have built an agent locally.
We have hosted in a sandbox. We have
published as a autopilot agent right
inside of Teams.
Now, let's enter the hard part, which is
operate. How do we make sure the agent
runs well and it can self-improve? Jeff?
>> All right, this is the last and if I
might say maybe the best chapter of it
all. I'm a little under the weather. I'm
going to help my hope voice holds out
for another 10 minutes, but I'm feeding
off of your energy. Okay, so let's take
a look about some of the challenges that
come on this optimization phase as well.
Right here, this is really where the
work begins. I can go build and
prototype really cool agents in a number
of hours or days, but how do I actually
go make this thing trusted in
production? How do I make sure I'm
understanding how are people using my
agent? What are the signals that are
happening? What's being successful or
what's not successful? How do I
understand where I need to improve it?
Now, this is also very challenging
because if you think of all of the
components involved with like the agents
that we've been building, I've got the
underlying model. I have my toolbox and
all the tools that are there. I've got
my own code. I've got the instructions
in my code. If I'm having an issue with
my agent, which one of those variables
should I tune and tweak? It can become
very overwhelming and very
time-consuming. So, I want to show you
how Foundry's helping you in this last
mile to really make these things robust.
Now, the first piece here is visibility.
I want to understand what is happening
and why it's happening. So, in our 5B
agent right here, I can come over here
to see all of the conversations that are
happening across this agent. But one of
my favorite features here is I can click
any of these. Let's just go ahead and
try this request right here. And we have
this new view that is rolled out, which
is called the trace replay view. So,
check this out. I see the conversation
that has happened. I can understand, you
know, from a basic thing, what was the
question that was asked and what was the
answer, but I can understand the
trajectory that this specific request
took. So, I can understand, okay, I got
asked this agent. It first had to do
some reasoning on this model. That took
about 20 seconds. It then called this
tool. Then it reasoned. Then it called
this tool. Any of these I can click into
understand the exact inputs and outputs
that went along the way. If I'm feeling
extra fancy, I can not only just see
this from a time perspective, but a
token perspective. Where are my tokens
being consumed throughout the process of
this request? And if I want to get
especially fancy, check this out. I'm
actually going to replay this. Let's do
this at eight times the speed, and let's
actually watch it as this plays through
the entire conversation, so I can
understand each of the phases that went
through, what the H it was doing, and
get a view into what the user saw
throughout this process. So, I'm able to
dive deeper to understand the specifics
of what's happening and get that
observability view right at my
fingertips. Now, let's say that I see
something that I want to improve. For
our agent, I'll tell you a real piece of
feedback that we saw as we were building
this, which was if you remember back to
that demo we did with the voice-enabled
agent at the beginning, right? Where I
said, "Hey, give me that specification."
I'm showing you the answer now.
How the agent is answering is a very LLM
way of doing things. It actually
returned a bullet point list. It said,
"Hey, you want to know the connection?
Here's a bullet point list of all that
stuff." But some of you might have been
listening in that first demo, and you
were like, "Wow, this sounds a little
bit robotic." As the voice just reads
through a bullet point list of topics.
So, I actually want to optimize my
agent. I want to make it so that it's
returning a more voice natural response.
But how do I go about doing that? Which
of all these things should I be tuning
or adjusting? So, let's actually walk
through that process here. I'm actually
going to jump over here to my terminal,
which is my best friend in the world. Uh
let's zoom in here really, really,
really tight. And I'm going to kick this
off with the first command, which is
AZD, which is the Azure Developer CLI.
AI Agent Eval Init.
Now, this will take our agent project,
and it's going to initialize it and get
it ready to run evaluations, so that I
have a benchmark evaluation that I can
improve this thing against. Now, the
voice-enabled agent was this field
operations facing agent, so we'll go
ahead and choose this one. And this is
going to do a few things for me. Now,
I've generated these ahead of time, but
the first thing it's going to do is,
"Hey, do you already have an eval data
set?" Now, many of you love to talk
about evals, but you don't actually have
an eval data set. And that's okay, I'm
not going to judge you. I'm often in the
same boat. Here, you can actually ask us
to help you generate an eval data set
automatically. How that works is we'll
go look through all of those historic
traces, additional signals that we have
about your agent, and we will go ahead
and suggest using an LLM an initial
starting point data set based on how
your agent is actually being interacted
with. So, this can help you actually
practice what you preach if you are in
that camp of talking about evals but not
having them. Now, the other piece here
is, "How do I have the right evaluation
logic though? How do I have the right
evaluator?" Now, what do I mean when I
say that? Well, out of the box inside of
Foundry, we have a number of built-in
evaluators. There's one that can
evaluate tool selection, tool output,
tool input, retrieval evaluation,
fluency evaluator. Sometimes I look at
this list though and I get a little bit
overwhelmed, right? My agent is this
field operations facing agent. What's
the right combination of built-in
evaluators? Well, the answer is actually
you might even sometimes want to custom
rubric. So, this will actually go
through and help you generate the right
combination of evaluators for your
specific uh agent. So, once I do that,
this will initialize my project. Let's
actually show you the custom rubric that
this generated for my agent. So, you can
see here this isn't just a single
dimension. This is actually used an LLM
to suggest for me a few different
dimensions that it recognizes are likely
important. So, it said, "Hey, you
probably want to make sure this is
calling the right tools. When I ask
about uptime, I want to make sure I'm
using Fabric IQ. So, let's make the
highest weighted thing correct tool use.
Safety warning is probably a big one,
right? Like this is custom unique to me.
This is now personalized for my specific
agent. Now, I can modify this, too. In
this case, you can see it actually
suggested this voice optimized
conciseness. Right now it gives this a
weight of three. Get based on the
feedback that I'm hearing, I actually
want to bump that up to 10. I want it to
wait much more heavily on making sure
that this thing is voice optimized based
on the feedback that I've gotten. So I
can go ahead and update this evaluator
so that now it is doing voice optimized
in that custom rubric. So now I have
this personalized evaluator for my
specific scenario that's looking at
these pieces. And again, I can modify
this and customize this as I need. Now,
where do I go from here? Well, I have my
data set. So this is the data set that I
had used to generate ahead of time. This
has a few questions that people might
ask as well as some answers. And now I
have my custom evaluator and I can pull
them all together now with what is
probably my favorite CLI command in the
world, which is AZD AI agent optimize.
Now, let me walk you through what
optimize is going to do. I'm going to
choose this agent. It says, "Hey, you've
already initialized this for
evaluations. Do you want to use that
configuration?" So what this is going to
do is it says, "Okay, I see the system
prompts, the instructions that this
agent has, the instructions that you
gave it in its code. I see any skills
that you might have configured for this
agent to have. I see the tool
configuration that you have. I can even
look at things like the target model. Am
I using GPT 5.5? Am I using Anthropic
Opus 4.8? Do I want to use that as a
variable?" I can specify what are the
variables that I want to have and then
here I'm going to choose a model to help
drive the optimization process. I'm just
going to leave this at GPT 5 right now.
Now what this kicks off for me, this
will actually take a while, this kicks
off an automatic optimization loop. This
is going to go through and adjust all of
those different variables. It's going to
say, "Okay, what if I modify your system
prompts? What if I modify your tool
descriptions? What if we use a different
model?" This is going to use leading
data science techniques to go find some
potential candidates for better versions
of my agent based on my custom rubric
that we defined. Now, rather than us
waiting here for the next however long
this takes, a couple dozen minutes,
let's actually just jump ahead quickly
to where I have Oh, my desktops are all
out of whack. Let's see if we can find
this one. Everyone cross your fingers.
It's here somewhere.
Uh Oh, you know where it was? It was in
Chrome that I closed earlier.
Uh okay, hold on. It's here. It's here.
Nobody doubt that it is here. Where is
it?
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, well, I have the URL here in a
second if I need to use it. That that
Chrome thing but before it threw me out.
Okay, watch this.
Live demo. Live demo gods, please be on
our side for this last piece. All right,
let me copy this URL.
Paste it in here. And we'll let this
load up. Okay. So, this Hey, it's live.
Okay. So, this is the evaluation that I
ran a little bit ago. You can see it ran
through and it said, "Hey, we actually
found a candidate that will boost your
evaluator 11%. You will get 11% better
performance just by me sitting and
waiting for that thing to finish." You
can see here that I actually identified
four candidates. Each of them had
different pros and cons. If I want to, I
can understand, well, what did you
change? You can see here, hey, this was
your existing system prompt. Here's a
new system prompt that if you use this
system prompt, you actually get better
behavior. So, I can go ahead and dive
into the results. I can dive really deep
into all of the score details, all of
those eval sets that it tested against.
And once I'm ready to go, I can go ahead
now and deploy this as the new version
of my agent and make this candidate the
default candidate so I get that
improvement on voice conciseness. So,
all of this loop, we were able to use AI
to automatically power a bunch of that
for me just running this optimization
loop. That's the same power we want to
put into all of your hands as you're
building your agents. So, with that,
Tina, we'll bring it on out to wrap
things up.
>> Thank you, Jeff.
Now, let's recap on operate.
Tracing and evaluation for hosted agents
is generally available soon.
Every single hour I'm called, tool
invocation, sub-second hop, handoff, is
all logged in one open telemetry
pipeline.
Rubric for custom evaluation is now in
public preview.
Rubric auto generates context-aware
criteria and weighted scoring to define
what good good looks like for both
evaluation and optimization. So, the
developer doesn't have to start from
scratch.
Agent Optimizer for Foundry Agent
Service is now in private preview.
Agent Optimizer turns production traces
and evals into a set of ranked
candidates by tweaking skills, prompt
tool configuration, and even models.
These ranked candidate These ranked
candidates are then shown side by side
across quality, cost, and latency.
The new developer in are in control to
choose the exact winning variant to
promote with full trace back and
lineage. Rollback is right there when
you need it.
The platform finds optimization,
developers in control on every single
change.
Procedural memory in Foundry Agent
Service is now in public preview.
Procedural memory empowers the agent to
learn the playbook across all sessions,
so the agent doesn't have to start
learning from scratch in every single
conversation.
As you can see, there's no manual
rewrite of prompts or skills.
The agent becomes smarter, safer, and
cheaper, the more advanced, all with
developer in control for every single
change.
So, let me now close out what that all
means.
This is not just a roadmap promise.
Over 80,000 customers are running on
Foundry today and they're already taking
advantage of production agents driving
significant business outcome.
Iberdrola is scaling their
mission-critical energy operations
across 14 countries.
They're leveraging identity,
memory, governance, observability, all
right from the Foundry agent service
with full control over regulated
operations.
Twilio has deployed the Twilio agent
connect, which is their open-source
framework that connects AI agents with
the Twilio platform, all running our
hosted agents in Foundry.
KPMG is building their global KPMG
workbench platform on hosted agents.
They're leveraging tools and skills in
Foundry toolbox, supercharging their
interaction with clients worldwide.
Now, let's recap on what has happened in
the last 45 minutes.
We started with a scenario our Azure
networking operations team faces on a
daily basis. A fiber got cut near one of
our data centers.
We then built an agent locally with
Microsoft agent framework as the
orchestrator.
We connected to the Foundry toolbox,
Foundry IQ,
memory,
voice,
document intelligence and content
understanding.
We then hosted as a hosted agent,
so it runs in an isolated secure
execution runtime.
We then published it into Teams as a
co-pilot agent.
We then operated the agent that works
autonomously, traced end-to-end,
governed in production, and is
meaningfully getting better through
every single run.
This is a power of Microsoft Foundry.
Seamless hosting, connected
intelligence, enterprise trust and
reach, all in one runtime.
So, super easy for you to scale your
locally scaffolded agent from your
laptop to scale through thousands of
conversations running in production.
This is Microsoft Foundry. Build simply,
deploy powerfully, operate with trust.
That's the promise we just walked you
through, and it's available to every
single developer in this room today.
Here are a few sessions that you may
want to check out at Build.
I am super excited to see what you can
build with Microsoft Foundry.
Thank you. Have a great Build.
>> Thanks, everyone. We'll stick We'll
We'll We have about 5 minutes where we
can come down here if anyone has any
questions. If we're not able to answer
your question before the next session,
which you should stick around for, I
think it's on observability, the Foundry
booth is just back here, and we've got
the team here all week. So, we'll We'll
answer what we can here. Uh and yeah,
thanks so much for coming, everyone.
>> [music]